Early and Often

General Purpose: to inspire
Specific Purpose: The audience will leave feeling motivated to take a chance
  either by giving their next speech or in some facet of their work life.

Thursday 8:17 AM.
Oh God, I'm such a fuck up.  Why did I ever sign up for this?
I will NEVER .. EVER sign up for a speech that isn't already at least
1/2 written again.  EVER.  All right, all right, it's a nice day; here
I am, walking through this nice neighborhood with its grand old trees,
at the corner of HOPE and MERCY!  It's going to be okay.

Thursday 3:04 PM.
Oh God.  Why am I such a fuck-up?  I have to give a speech tomorrow, and I
have NO .. FUCKING .. CLUE what I'm going to talk about.

Thursday 3:06 PM.
Wait a minute, holy cow, that's it!  I've got it!
They say, talk about what you know.
They say, talk about what you're good at.
They say ... well they say a lot of shit, but this is GREAT.  I'll get
right to the point about what I'm BEST AT.  Yes, I'm going to talk about
...
Fucking up!  Now *THAT* is what jI'm best at.

When I was in grade school, I don't think I *ever* had a report card come
home that didn't say, "Ted does not live up to his potential."  That is a
much stronger data point than you might expect, since my Mom saved *all*
of my report cards.

In 3rd grade, I was put in a reading group for the kids who are struggling.
It was one of the best experiences of my life.  First off, I *loved* my
3rd grade teacher (Mr. Leiwer), and secondly, by midway through the year
he told my parents, you know, he has the vocabulary of a high school senior.
(And no, that wasn't because I was throwing F-bombs down in the classroom.)

I can't tell you how many assignments I had throughout my education where
I was up late the night before, berating myself for screwing up, and wondering,
why didn't I just do the damned work earlier?  Actually, I *can* tell you.
ALL OF THEM.  Once, in high school, I was really stressing out about writing
an English paper, so I actually wrote it 2 days in advance.  It felt great.
Then sometime around noon the next day, I realized that I didn't know what
I had written or where I had put the paper, and in true Stephen King
fashion, the horror slowly dawned on me that I had only *dreamed* that
I had written the paper and hadn't actually done it.  That is a true story.

I *am* the ADD poster child.  (Or at least I was.  Age honestly helps.
(And so does Ritalin.)  But the point isn't just to do some lame rehash
of the icebreaker speech, it's to try to make the point that it's not only
okay; it's *good* to screw up.  Failure is not an option; it's a necessity.

I love irony, and I love that over and over again, it turns out that our
weaknesses are almost always also our strengths.  When I was a young
engineer, I would constantly read stuff (perl, tcl, expect, lisp, man pages,
etc), when I *should* have been working on projects I needed to deliver.
But just messing around and getting a "feel" for systems has come in handy
so many times in the last 20 years, I can't even begin to tell.

When my kids were small, I used to coach their soccer teams and after a
few years, I realized that the crazy 5 year olds who would always go for it
and always wanted to get their feet on the soccer ball might be frustrating
at 5, and sometimes even hilarious (scoring in the wrong goal, anyone?),
but by the time they turned 8, they were always amazing players.

Look, most of us in this room  are engineers working for an enterprise
data storage company.  Engineers spend most of their waking hours
trying to avoid doing something wrong.  At a data storage company, we can't
lose or corrupt customers' data.  Ever.  But if you spend all your time
in your comfort zone, how will you know where your limit really is?

Which brings us to the here-and-now.  We are *here*, at toastmasters,
because we have all seen people who are great speakers or presenters
and thought, "I'd like to do that!"  But we are *all* scared, *none*
of us are good at this yet, and we *all* have to put ourselves out there
in front of everyone.

If you aren't occasionally so scared, so deeply terrified that you are afraid
you're going to wet yourself, then maybe you're just playing it safe.  Maybe
you're on the slow-but-steady path to improvement, but maybe, just maybe,
you could use a little shaking-up.  Maybe you should try something you
REALLY .. DON'T .. KNOW you can accomplish.

I wake up just about every single day, thinking, "is today the day that
everyone around me discovers that I am a complete fraud?"
 I look around this room, and I think, "holy crap, what am *I* doing
here?  I see people who are feakishly smart, more capable, more determined,
generally harder-working, and *way* more capable of staying on-task
than I am, and to be honest, it's pretty damned intimidating.  All I can do
is go for it, try to get something good done, and remind myself of my
favorite Woody Allen quote: "90% of life is just showing up."

So, my request to you is go fail, or at least go take a chance!  Show up!
We tend to spend a lot of time celebrating our successes, but I think it's
good to celebrate our failures, too.  So, go fail.  I'll happily buy
anyone here a vegetable, to hear a good fail story.

And now it's time for me to go have a vegetable myself.

