#
# vim: set ai sw=4:

"The Code Book: the science of secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography"
    -Simon Singh

"Alan Turing: the Enigma" 
    -Andrew Hodges

"Codebreakers: The Inside Story of Bletchley Park"

crypto anecdotes:

Mary Queen of Scots

WW1 -- German ambassador to US, Mexico
    1915:
        Sinking of Lusitania. Germany agreed that U-boats would
        surface before attacking to prevent accidental sinking of civilian
        ships.
    Nov 1916:
        Arthuor Zimmermann is appointed Germany's Foreign Minister
        Newspaper headlines:
            "Our Friend Zimmermann"
            "Liberalization of Germany"
        Article:
            "one of the most auspicious omens for the future of
             German-American relations."
    On Jan 9, 1917: 
        German High Command argues that Germany should renege and switch to
        unrestricted submarine warfare.  The crux was that Germany would then
        need to force and allied surrender before America could mobilize and
        become an effective force in the war.
        The Kaiser signs an order to proceed with unrestricted u-boat warfare
        effective Feb 1, 1918.
        For insurance, Zimmermann devised a plan to delay and weaken America's
        involvement:



WW2: British sold Enigmas to former colonies.

Mary, Queen of Scots:
Trial on Oct 15, 1586
Babbington Plot  (Anthony Babbington)
  Deciphered by Anthony Phelippes (Eliz master codebreaker)
Used monoalphabetic cipher with some symbols to represent common words
Arthur Zimmerman


May 7, 1915: sinking of lusitania
Germany agrees to limit submarine warfare (must surface before launching torpedoes)
Nov 1916: AZ appointed German foreign secretary
Newspaper headlines:                                                    
"Our Friend Zimmermann"                                             
"Liberalization of Germany"                                         
 Article:                                                                
"one of the most auspicious omens for the future of  German-American relations."                                        
    On Jan 9, 1917:                                                             
        German High Command argues for total submarine warfare and Kaiser approves it as of Feb 1.  Basic idea: get British surrender before US can effectively enter the war.
Proposal to Mexico:
War on U.S if US enters war in Europe.  Germany will support return of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas territory.
Code 0075 used for transmission
Germans used neutral parties trans atlantic transmission lines (American, Swiss)
Jan 17, 1917
Room 40 intercepts message.
Nigel de Gray decrypts enough to convey importance of message.
Was some debate about authenticity.  Zimmerman 
13040

