Why are we here?

This could be a cosmic, philosophical question about the origins of the
universe, or about broad human purpose, or giving back, or even about our
corporate identity.

But it isn't.  At least not really.  I'm asking why we, the people here,
in this room *are* here, in this room.

Since this is a speech and not a discussion, you may rest assured that the
question is rhetorical.  And in the great (perhaps hackneyed) tradition of
using rhetorical questions in speeches, I'm only asking, so I can tell
you *my* answer.

I believe we are here because we believe we can improve ourselves by
being here.

A little while ago, for 5 years, I was a ski instructor.  I'm not going
to go into a ton of details there, but I will say that for me it was a
life changing experience.  Not just because it allowed me to share my
honest love of an activity with other people, and not just because it
helped me become better at something I love, but because it showed me
what an orginization dedicted to a teaching and learning cycle can do.

But as a group we are honestly lacking the skills and deep experience to
have the full cycle.  We don't have any professional speakers in our club,
and we don't have anyone who has dedicated their entire career to training
people to become better speakers, presenters, and frankly, motivators.

*We* have to build that expertise, here, with the people right here.  That is
a serious opportunity.  There are flashes of brilliance in our club.  Wouldn't
it be aweseome if all of us could stand up in front of a group and project:
    - Mia's welcoming personality and super ability to show what she means.
    or
    - Oren's HUGE (and irrepressible) personality on stage.
    or
    - Zach's intensity and intellectual curiosity
    or
    - Ayesha's flat out determination to get shit done NOW!
Imagine if you get up in front of any group of people and blend all those
skills and talents into any conversation, any presentation, any meeting,
and do it effortlessly, without even having to think about it.

Just think about that for a second.  Wouldn't you like to be a better,
more confident, more persuasive speaker every day?  *That* is what we're
working on here.  The benefit of putting in the homework time is that we
get to quit worrying about filling roles in our meetings and get to start
thinking about what we see, what we'd like to emulate, and to be honest:
what pitfalls we'd like to avoid.

As a group, we don't suffer from performance anxiety.  You are a group
that steps up.  Amazingly.  But we do suffer from commitment anxiety.
Do I have time, what if I actually prepare and things don't go the way
I want?

Well, you only get out of something what you put into it.  If you commit
to putting your self into this fully, I honestly believe you can get
everything I've described and more.

We have to learn, experiment, succeed, fail, push each other, support each
    other, CHALLENGE each other to get better.
But, it can't happen if you don't do it.  Get up here.
    Speak.  Evaluate.  Toastmast.  Topic some tables.  Take a chance.
    Take a lot of changes.  Do something twice, thrice.

Every other week we have a chance to learn by watching, learn by doing, learn
    by evaluating.

Will *you* commit to getting all you can from that opportunity?
