
- Club needs "tough love".  We are not very organized, and I don't see people
  improving as fast as they should.  Our speeches are usually last minute, we
  struggle to find contestants for our competitions, and our elections don’t
  Feel planned.
- When thinking about this, I had a moment of realization:
  Toastmasters *really is* about developing both presentation *and*
  leadership skills.  I think the club officer roles really are an
  opportunity to practice leadership skills, and if I do this, I want to be
  up front about what I want to accomplish, what I expect to get out of it,
  and what I want the other officers to get out of it.
- My goals for the next 6 months are:
  - The club officers will create, maintain, and communicate a plan for the
    full 6 months.  We will have a calendar which shows all the meetings, when
    the competitions will be and when we will have the next elections.
    We will be looking for contestents, and people to run for officer roles
    at least a month in advance (preferably longer).
  - I want to view this as an opportunity for me to practice developing
    leadership skills in others.  I would like to start the term with
    a very directive style (I think I *know* how we should be doing things.),
    and I would like to finish the term with a set of officers who have a
    real, experienced sense of what it's like to fill a role that is focused
    on enabling others, and require little direction.
  - By the end of January I want the club officers to have created specific
    measurable objectives for membership, actual meeting attendance, and club
    members' progress through their speeches.  We need to be held accountable
    for meeting those objectives.
  - We need to reinvigorate our membership.  We need to keep bringing in
    fresh faces.  I know that Mia and Aisha have specific ideas about
    outreach to other groups, and we should commit to seeing those through.
    However, I will say that if we want to get other groups to be interested
    in Toastmasters, we *must* demonstrate that we are providing an
    environment where people actually are growing; and not just a theoretical
    opportunity.
  - In short, at the end of 6 months, if we have a large and engaged
    membership, our meetings feel crisp, well organized and highly valuable,
    and everyone in the club can see what every officer is doing, and wonders
    what the hell I'm doing, I would consider it a complete success.
