
The Theme of the Toastmasters meeting was ... "Toastmasters."
Oh God; we've fallen into a death-spiral of meta.

As toastmaster, Zach handled the meeting smoothly, ably and with grace.

Welcome Azaria and Dina!  FWIW, I haven't seen newcomers sign up for 
participation like this (Azaria is our Toastmaster and Dina is our Table
Topics master next week), since Christtia, and Miguel joined.  It's great
to see new faces and signing up for roles right out of the chute is
excellent!

Oren is brave where I am timid: he gave speech #7 (research your topic), while
I simply flaked out at the last minute because I wasn't ready.  He gave a
host of good reasons why it's in all of our best interests to check out
pathways, and franky, persuaded me to check it out where I was previously
unenthused.

I'll summarize the rest of the meeting with quotes (or paraphrases):

Oren: "We're not here because we thirst for awards from Toastmasters!"
      "We all tend toward our foibles."  (Ain't that the truth!)

Mia: Social Media is a version of yourself, but someplace else ... you should
     make it your best self!

Vinu: "Open up and shamelessly market yourself!"

Oren: (In response to a question about talking to a familiar audience about
      an unfamiliar topic): "The name 'Toastmasters' kind of covers it."
      (And Oren's usual staggering vocal variety and ability to be happily
      bombastic reminded me that I'd rather be shouted at by him than carefully
      talked to by almost anyone else.)

Matt: (On the topic of talking in front of a large group:)
      I don't have much advice for preparation ... beyond beer.

Pat: (Taking on the topic of body language and feeling awkward):
     I welcome feedback ... preferably not in public!

Azaria on the value of mentorship:
    - Mentoring can be about work, or joining a group of friends or anything ...
    - Mentoring can be formal or informal
    - When starting something new, *you don't know where the boundaries are*.

Mia (during her evaluation of Oren's speech):
    That was "informal but informative." (Which is likely the most perfectly
    pithy phrase I've ever heard in an evaluation, in that it summed up Oren's
    speech, and Oren's style perfectly in 3 words.)  Awesome!
